---
title: "Enabling Two-Factor Authentication 2FA for Apple ID and DropBox"
date: Tue, 02 Sep 2014 17:00:37 +0000
draft: false
type: posts
categories: 
- 
---
# Enabling Two-Factor Authentication 2FA for Apple ID and DropBox

<br/>

<br/>
In light of the recent compromises, you’re probably wondering what could have been done to prevent such attacks. According to some unverified articles it would appear that flaws in Apple’s services allowed an attacker to brute force passwords without any rate limiting or account lockout. While its not publicly known if the attacks were accomplished via brute force password guessing, there has been a lot of talk about enabling Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) across services that offer it. The two most popular services being discussed are iCloud and DropBox. While setting up 2FA on these services is not as easy as it should be, this guide will step you through enabling 2FA on Google, Apple ID and DropBox accounts. It’s a free way of adding an extra layer of security on top of these services which handle potentially sensitive information.

What is Two-Factor Authentication?
==================================

Username and password authentication uses a single factor to verify identity: something the user knows. Two-Factor authentication adds an extra layer of security on top of a username and password. Normally, the second factor is something only the real user has. This is typically a temporary passcode generated by a piece of hardware such as an RSA token, a passcode sent as an SMS to the user’s cell phone, or a mobile application that accomplishes the same function.

With two-factor authentication, stealing a username and password won’t be enough to log in — the second factor is also required. This multi-factor authentication means an attacker will be required to compromise a user above and beyond password guessing or stealing a credentials database. An attacker would have to gain access to the source of the extra, unique and usually temporary information that makes up the 2FA.

#### [Source](https://blog.trailofbits.com/2014/09/02/enabling-two-factor-authentication-2fa-for-apple-id-and-dropbox/)

<br/>
---
