---
title: "VulnCheck Raises 32 Million to Solve Prioritization Challenge for Enterprise Government and Cybersecurity Solution Providers"
date: 2023-02-10T00:00:00.000Z
draft: false
type: posts
categories: 
- 
---
# VulnCheck Raises 32 Million to Solve Prioritization Challenge for Enterprise Government and Cybersecurity Solution Providers

<br/>

<br/>
Sorenson Ventures leads seed funding with participation from In-Q-Tel; Vulnerability intelligence startup powered by former lead researchers and exploit developers at Tenable, Rapid7, Dragos and Veracode\\n\\n\*\*LEXINGTON, Mass\*\*. – February 9, 2023 – VulnCheck, the vulnerability intelligence company, today announced a $3.2 million seed funding round led by Sorenson Ventures with participation from In-Q-Tel, Lux Capital, and Aviso Ventures. The company also secured financing from angel investors, including Dave Cole, co-founder and CEO of Open Raven and former CPO at CrowdStrike and Tenable, and Oliver Friedrichs, founder and CEO at Pangea and former CEO at Phantom and Immunet. The company will use the funding to increase hiring and bolster product development. \\n \\nVulnCheck helps large enterprises, government agencies and cybersecurity solution providers outpace adversaries by providing the most comprehensive, real-time vulnerability intelligence autonomously correlated with unique, proprietary exploit and threat intelligence. The company, founded in 2021, is led by Anthony Bettini, former head of Tenable research and former founder and CEO of FlawCheck and Appthority. The Boston-based vulnerability intelligence company is powered by a team of former lead researchers at Tenable, Rapid7, Dragos, and Veracode and former lead exploit developers of MetaSploit. \\n\\n::author-quote\\n---\\nauthor: Tony Spinelli \\nposition: Venture Partner at Sorenson Ventures\\n---\\nVulnCheck’s superpower is its ability to discover vulnerability intelligence that other solutions are unable to access, acquire, and have no ability to find - which is the key to security since you can’t secure what you don’t know about, Its deep and talented team with cross-disciplinary expertise in vulnerability research and exploit development gives them a perspective on the threat landscape that we have not seen anywhere else in the industry. The VulnCheck team is providing unique threat insights with much deeper exploit context that organizations formerly had no ability to find.\\n::\\n\\n \\nVulnCheck delivers threat intelligence services to help organizations prioritize responses to the growing mountains of vulnerabilities and take action before adversaries can attack. VulnCheck’s cyber threat intelligence services include: \\n\\n\\n- \*\*VulnCheck Vulnerability Intelligence\*\*: a commercial alternative to the NIST National Vulnerability Database (NVD). VulnCheck includes more data, fields, sources, exploit and remediation intelligence, and provides data weeks earlier. \\n \\n- \*\*VulnCheck Exploit Intelligence\*\*: helps organizations track all of the world's exploit proof-of-concept code, exploited in-the-wild information, and exploit metadata, including timelines, to focus remediation resources on the right vulnerabilities. \\n \\n- \*\*VulnCheck Initial Access Intelligence\*\*: provides organizations the detection artifacts, such as Snort or Suricata signatures, YARA rules, PCAPs, and private exploit PoCs, to defend against initial access vulnerabilities, recently exploited or likely to be soon. \\n\\n::author-quote\\n---\\nauthor: Katie Gray \\nposition: Senior Partner at In-Q-Tel\\n---\\nThe core problem with existing solutions such as NVD is that vulnerability data alone does not give security teams enough context to help them prioritize remediation efforts, By enriching vulnerability data with information about exploit activity, VulnCheck is giving security teams the coveted ability to prioritize remediation of vulnerabilities based on a real-time assessment of exploit weaponization.\\n::\\n\\nVulnCheck supports enterprise and government customers and is trusted by some of the world's most prominent cybersecurity vendors responsible for protecting hundreds of millions of systems and people. \\n\\n\\n::author-quote\\n---\\nauthor: Anthony Bettini \\nposition: Founder at VulnCheck\\n---\\n\\n“Our team’s mission is to autonomously gather and leverage exploit and vulnerability intelligence to manage the world’s vulnerabilities at scale,” said Bettini. “The investments we’ve secured show strong confidence in our vision. We are thrilled to be working with these strategic partners to fuel our next stage of growth.” \\n::\\n\\n### About Sorenson Ventures\\nSorenson Ventures is an early-stage venture capital firm that invests in enterprise software and security companies. With offices in Palo Alto, CA and Lehi, UT and more than $250 million of capital under management, Sorenson Ventures invests in product-oriented founders and helps portfolio companies establish a strong foundation to accelerate revenue growth with Global 2000 customers.\\n\\n### About IQT\\nIQT is the non-profit strategic investor that serves the national security interests of the U.S. and its allies, providing the most sophisticated source of strategic technical knowledge and capabilities. IQT powers the national security interests of the U.S. intelligence and national security community and its allies through cutting-edge technology, strategic investments, exploration and applied research, and acceleration of capabilities. For more information visit www.iqt.org.\\n\\n### About VulnCheck \\nVulnCheck is the vulnerability intelligence company helping enterprises, government organizations, and cybersecurity vendors solve the vulnerability prioritization challenge. Trusted by some of the world's largest organizations responsible for protecting hundreds of millions of systems and people, VulnCheck helps organizations outpace adversaries by providing the most comprehensive, real-time vulnerability intelligence that is autonomously correlated with unique, proprietary exploit and threat intelligence. Follow the company on \[LinkedIn\](https://www.linkedin.com/company/vulncheck/).

#### [Source](https://vulncheck.com/blog/seed-funding)

<br/>
---
