---
title: "This is 300"
date: Thu, 01 Aug 2024 05:00:00 -0000
draft: false
type: posts
categories: 
- 
---
# This is 300

<br/>

<br/>
This week we celebrate 300 episodes! Maria Varmazis host of the N2K daily space show, T-Minus, joins Dave and Joe and shares a PSA on the CrowdStrike outage. Her story focuses on the Olympics, as this was the first week the Olympics started, and she shares about a recent fraud campaign that is targeting iPhone users in India, posing as India Post through smishing attacks. Our hosts discuss some follow up, from listener Brie, who writes in to share how one police force is helping folks stay safe from scam callers. They also share a story from listener Mark, who writes in about his 77-year-old mom's Facebook account being hacked, and she was tricked into downloading an app and opening her banking app while on a fake customer service call. Dave's story is on Gina Russell, who posed as a psychic and led an elaborate extortion scheme with her family, coercing victims into giving them millions of dollars under threats of harm. Joe has the story of social media giant Meta saying sextortion scams are increasing, with criminals from Nigeria often targeting adult men in the U.S.. Our catch of the day comes from an anonymous listener, who shared a post they found on the social media platform "Shared," about a scammer getting messed with. Please take a moment to fill out an audience survey! Let us know how we are doing! Links to the stories: Phishing Campaign Targeting Mobile Users in India Using India Post Lures Sextortion scams run by Nigerian criminals are targeting American men, Meta says ‘Psychic’ and family of extortionists scam Md. man out of $4.2 million You can hear more from the T-Minus space daily show here. Have a Catch of the Day you'd like to share? Email it to us at hackinghumans@thecyberwire.com.

#### [Source](https://thecyberwire.com/podcasts/hacking-humans/300/notes)

<br/>
---
