---
title: "Election Propaganda Part 3 Efforts to reduce the impact of future elections CSO Perspectives"
date: Wed, 16 Oct 2024 07:00:00 -0000
draft: false
type: posts
categories: 
- 
---
# Election Propaganda Part 3 Efforts to reduce the impact of future elections CSO Perspectives

<br/>

<br/>
Thinking past the US 2024 Presidential Election, In part three of the series, Rick Howard, N2K CyberWire’s Chief Analyst and Senior Fellow, discusses reducing the impact of propaganda in the future elections with Perry Carpenter, Chief Human Risk Management Strategist at KnowBe4 and host of the 8th Layer Insights Podcast, Nina Jankowicz, Co-Founder and CEO of the The American Sunlight Project, and Scott Small, Director of Cyber Threat Intelligence at Tidal Cyber. Check out Part 1 & 2! Part 1: Election Propaganda Part 1: How Does Election Propaganda Work? In this episode, Rick Howard, N2K CyberWire’s Chief Analyst and Senior Fellow, discusses personal defensive measures that every citizen can take—regardless of political philosophy—to resist the influence of propaganda. This foundational episode is essential for understanding how to navigate the complex landscape of election messaging. Part 2: Election Propaganda: Part 2: Modern propaganda efforts. In preparation for the US 2024 Presidential Election, Rick Howard, N2K CyberWire’s Chief Analyst and Senior Fellow, discusses recent international propaganda efforts in the form of nation state interference and influence operations as well as domestic campaigns designed to split the target country into opposing camps. Guests include Nina Jankowicz, Co-Founder and CEO of the The American Sunlight Project and Scott Small, Director of Cyber Threat Intelligence at Tidal Cyber. References: Rick Howard, 2024. Election Propaganda Part 1: How does election propaganda work? \[3 Part Podcast Series\]. The CyberWire. Rick Howard, 2024. Election Propaganda: Part 2: Modern propaganda efforts. \[3 Part Podcast Series\]. The CyberWire. Christopher Chabris, Daniel Simons, 2010. The Invisible Gorilla: And Other Ways Our Intuitions Deceive Us \[Book\]. Goodreads. Chris Palmer, 2010. TFL Viral - Awareness Test (Moonwalking Bear) \[Explainer\]. YouTube. David Ehl, 2024. Why Meta is now banning Russian propaganda \[News\]. Deutsche Welle. Eli Pariser, 2011. The Filter Bubble: What the Internet is Hiding From You \[Book\]. Goodreads. Kara Swisher, Julia Davis, Alex Stamos, Brandy Zadrozny, 2024. Useful Idiots? How Right-Wing Influencers Got $ to Spread Russian Propaganda \[Podcast\]. On with Kara Swisher. Nate Silver, 2024. What’s behind Trump’s surge in prediction markets? \[Analysis\]. Silver Bulletin. Niha Masih, 2024. Meta bans Russian state media outlet RT for acts of ‘foreign interference’ \[News\]. The Washington Post. Nilay Patel, 2024. The AI election deepfakes have arrived \[Podcast\]. Decoder. Nina Jankowicz, 2020. How to Lose the Information War: Russia, Fake News and the Future of Conflict \[Book\]. Goodreads. Perry Carpenter, 2024. FAIK: A Practical Guide to Living in a World of Deepfakes, Disinformation, and AI-Generated Deceptions \[Book\]. Goodreads. Perry Carpenter, 2021. Meatloaf Recipes Cookbook: Easy Recipes For Preparing Tasty Meals For Weight Loss And Healthy Lifestyle All Year Round \[Book\]. Goodreads. Perry Carpenter, n.d. 8th Layer Insights \[Podcast\]. N2K CyberWire. Renee DiResta, 2024. Invisible Rulers: The People Who Turn Lies into Reality \[Book\]. Goodreads. Robin Stern, Marc Brackett, 2024. 5 Ways to Recognize and Avoid Political Gaslighting \[Explainer\]. The Washington Post. Sarah Ellison, Amy Gardner, Clara Ence Morse, 2024. Elon Musk’s misleading election claims reach millions and alarm election officials \[News\]. The Washington Post. Scott Small, 2024. Election Cyber Interference Threats & Defenses: A Data-Driven Study \[White Paper\]. Tidal Cyber. Staff, n.d. Overview: Coalition for Content Provenance and Authenticity \[Website\]. C2PA. Staff, 2021. Foreign Threats to the 2020 US Federal Elections \[Intelligence Community Assessment\]. DNI. Staff, n.d. Project Origin \[Website\]. OriginProject. URL https://www.originproject.info/ Stuart A. Thompson, Tiffany Hsu, 2024. Left-Wing Misinformation Is Having a Moment \[Analysis\] The New York Times.

#### [Source](https://thecyberwire.com/podcasts/cso-perspectives-public/5575/notes)

<br/>
---
