---
title: "VulnCheck and Sevco"
date: 2024-08-01T00:00:00.000Z
draft: false
type: posts
categories: 
- 
---
# VulnCheck and Sevco

<br/>

<br/>
\\nToday marks a very interesting day for VulnCheck - we are announcing our partnership with \[Sevco Security\](https://sevcosecurity.com/), provider of the industry’s most accurate real-time asset intelligence platform. \\n\\nSevco is a market leader. Through this collaboration, Sevco has integrated VulnCheck data to roll out a significant set of enhancements to its existing vulnerability prioritization and exposure management capabilities. The integration of VulnCheck’s exploit and vulnerability intelligence with the Sevco platform offers organizations the most comprehensive visibility into their attack surface and software assets, empowering teams to quickly remediate potential vulnerabilities. \\n\\nWhat’s New\\nSevco gives teams comprehensive visibility into an organization’s attack surface and the assets in its IT environment. Their platform consolidates CVEs from the many sources that report them and uncovers environmental vulnerabilities to improve the efficacy of vulnerability management programs. \\n\\n!\[VulnCheck Sevco Product\](/blog/vulncheck-sevco/vulncheck-sevco.png){:width="100%"}\\n\\nThis partnership and integration enables Sevco to enrich CVEs with VulnCheck data, providing teams with a complete view of vulnerabilities and their potential for weaponization or exploitation in the wild. Through enhancements to the Sevco Unified Vulnerability Dashboard, security teams now have real-time, deep contextual understanding of their vulnerability risks. \\n\\nThis is a big deal because Sevco is the first mover to leverage VulnCheck’s intelligence in the asset management segment of cybersecurity. \\n\\nWhat are the core benefits customers can expect from this partnership?\\nThe Sevco-VulnCheck partnership enables organizations to accelerate the maturity of their vulnerability management programs by providing the following foundational elements:\\n\* Complete Asset Inventory – Sevco’s security asset inventory automatically provides security teams a complete and accurate view of devices – and the agents used to manage them – that is essential for understanding where vulnerabilities could be hiding.\\n\* Vulnerability Consolidation & Prioritization – Sevco consolidates vulnerabilities from any source that reports them into one platform, and VulnCheck provides the exploitation intelligence vulnerability management programs can use to triage and prioritize vulnerabilities.\\n\* Remediation, Validation and Reporting -- Sevco provides extensible asset data to combine business-related context with the vulnerability and exploit intelligence from VulnCheck to determine, act, and report on the risk specific to each organization.\\n\\n::author-quote\\n---\\nauthor: Anthony Bettini \\nposition: Founder and CEO \\n---\\nEnterprise systems have evolved to the point where security teams demand the fastest threat data to defeat adversaries and reduce risk. At the same time, effective vulnerability management requires a comprehensive and accurate asset inventory that is updated in real time. The combination of Sevco and VulnCheck enables enterprises to continuously discover and analyze across all assets to identify vulnerable conditions before an attacker can exploit them.\\n::\\n\\n\\nWhat’s truly unique about Sevco adding VulnCheck intelligence to its platform is that Sevco’s confidence in VulnCheck’s data was realized because other intelligence sources only cover a fraction of vulnerabilities in the wild, and lack critical information such as CVSS scores or Known Exploited Vulnerabilities (KEVs). \\n\\nIn just two sources as part of a larger collection of vulnerability intelligence sources, which are available to anyone in \[VulnCheck’s Community Tier\](https://vulncheck.com/community), VulnCheck covers over 80% more exploited vulnerabilities in the wild than the CISA KEV, and on average notifies users 27 days earlier than CISA and 14 days faster than NIST NVD.\\n\\nVulnCheck maintains over 300 million unique data points from 420+ sources on ALL CVE’s, making it the only game in town for product builders to autonomously enrich the aggregated and deduplicated vulnerabilities like they do in the Sevco platform. So this is a big deal because now VulnCheck is paired with asset data, and understanding where software packages are vulnerable when there are likely apps that many organizations are blind to - is well, huge!\\n\\n::author-quote\\n---\\nauthor: J.J. Guy\\nposition: Co-Founder and CEO\\n---\\nWith the exploitation of vulnerabilities increasing 180% over the past year, organizations must mature their vulnerability management programs as a strategic priority. Our partnership with VulnCheck enables us to significantly build on the vulnerability hunting capabilities in the Sevco platform by adding the most complete exploit intelligence on the market. The combination gives security teams the only real-time threat visibility for software assets, enabling them to act faster and smarter in remediating vulnerabilities.\\n::\\n\\nWe are thrilled to reconnect with some old friends at Sevco who have put together a great offering and a great organization. Its also been great to work with the Sevco team, and make some new friends along the way!! \\n\\n\\nIf you’re interested in learning more about the integration, we’ll be teaming up with Sevco to demonstrate the new capabilities at Black Hat USA next week. Stop by Startup City stand 220 to see how these enhancements can benefit you’re organization. \\n\\n\\nPlus, Sevco is a sponsor of VulnCheck’s Security Wasteland 2024. \[You should register\](https://wwv.vulncheck.com/security-wasteland-black-hat-2024?utm\_source=vulncheck) if you haven’t!!! Let’s go!\\n\\n

#### [Source](https://vulncheck.com/blog/vulncheck-sevco)

<br/>
---
