---
title: "VulnCheck Secures 12 Million in Series A Funding to Meet Surging Global Demand for Exploit Intelligence Solutions"
date: 2025-03-18T00:00:00.000Z
draft: false
type: posts
categories: 
- 
---
# VulnCheck Secures 12 Million in Series A Funding to Meet Surging Global Demand for Exploit Intelligence Solutions

<br/>

<br/>
\*\*LEXINGTON, Mass. – March 18, 2025\*\* \*\*–\*\* \[VulnCheck\](https://vulncheck.com/), the exploit intelligence company, today announced a $12 million Series A funding round led by Ten Eleven Ventures, with participation from existing investors, including Sorenson Capital and In-Q-Tel. The latest investment brings its total funding raised to nearly $20 million. VulnCheck will use the funds to fuel international expansion and accelerate growth by enhancing its exploit intelligence platform and scaling go-to-market initiatives. \\n\\nThe oversubscribed round follows a year in which VulnCheck achieved \[3x year-over-year Annual Recurring Revenue growth, 158% customer growth, and a 100% customer retention rate.\](https://vulncheck.com/press/2024-record-growth) The company’s exploit intelligence offerings are trusted by nearly 7,000 businesses and organizations worldwide since \[launching its Community tier just one year ago.\](https://vulncheck.com/community)\\n \\n::author-quote\\n---\\nauthor: Mark Hatfield\\nposition: Founder and General Partner at Ten Eleven Ventures\\n---\\n\\nVulnCheck's hypergrowth highlights its unique ability to address one of today's most pressing organizational challenges. As cybersecurity specialist investors, we backed VulnCheck because the current paradigms for threat intelligence and vulnerability management are fundamentally flawed. They require too much human intervention to distill the information needed to prioritize action. VulnCheck is disrupting these legacy approaches by autonomously collecting and integrating exploit and vulnerability intelligence at scale. Founder Anthony Bettini's unparalleled technical expertise, steady leadership, and disciplined approach to product development further cement the company’s position as a game-changer in the industry.\\n::\\n\\nAccording to VulnCheck’s \[2024 Trends in Vulnerability Exploitation Report\](https://vulncheck.com/blog/2024-exploitation-trends), 768 vulnerabilities were publicly reported as being exploited in the wild for the first time, a 20% increase over 2023. The report also revealed that 23.6% of its known exploited vulnerabilities (KEVs) were exploited on or before the day their CVEs were publicly disclosed. \\n\\n\\n::author-quote\\n---\\nauthor: JJ Guy\\nposition: CEO and Co-founder, Sevco Security\\n---\\n\\nLegacy vulnerability management solutions lack full visibility into today’s CVE landscape and are designed to help analysts research threats by hand, which doesn't paint a full threat picture and can slow teams down. VulnCheck is flipping the script, delivering an autonomous system that collects all vulnerability and exploit intelligence which distills it down to the critical vulnerabilities we expose for Sevco customers.\\n\\n::\\n\\n::author-quote\\n---\\nauthor: Ken Elefant\\nposition: Partner, Sorenson Capital\\n---\\n\\nWhen managing and responding to vulnerabilities, time matters. VulnCheck is a massive-scale unlock for cybersecurity teams, enabling defenders to move at the speed of business to take action on emerging threats with the context necessary for precision response.\\n\\n::\\n\\n\\nVulnCheck delivers the most comprehensive, real-time exploit and vulnerability intelligence, autonomously collected at the time of disclosure. VulnCheck sources data from nearly 500 channels and over 400 million records across all CVEs. The platform refreshes its feed every eight hours and provides data output in machine-readable formats. Designed for seamless integration into security workflows and products, VulnCheck enables product, security and response teams to track, prioritize, and remediate the most critical vulnerabilities before attackers strike. \\n\\n::author-quote\\n---\\nauthor: Anthony Bettini\\nposition: founder and CEO, VulnCheck\\n---\\n\\nVulnerability prioritization is a top three cybersecurity problem that’s impacting organizations across the globe. This funding represents a commitment to our customers to help them win the fight against adversaries that are weaponizing and exploiting an ever-growing volume of vulnerabilities faster than ever.\\n\\n::\\n\\nIn 2024, VulnCheck was named a finalist for the \[RSA Conference Innovation Sandbox\](https://vulncheck.com/press/innovation-sandbox) – a platform for highlighting the most promising young cybersecurity companies. The company was also listed as one of the 20 rising stars on the \[Forbes Cloud 100 list\](https://vulncheck.com/press/forbes-top-20-rising-stars).\\n\\n\\nTo learn more about VulnCheck and its exploit intelligence solutions, visit https://vulncheck.com/. \\n \\n## About Ten Eleven Ventures \\nTen Eleven Ventures is the original cybersecurity-focused, global and stage-agnostic investment firm. The firm finds, invests in and helps grow top cybersecurity companies addressing critical digital security needs, tapping its team, network and experience to help build successful businesses. Since its founding, Ten Eleven Ventures has raised over $US 1 billion and made over 50 cybersecurity investments across stages worldwide, including KnowBe4, Darktrace, Axis Security, Twistlock, Verodin, Cylance and Ping Identity. For more information, please visit 1011vc.com. \\n\\n## About VulnCheck \\nVulnCheck is the exploit intelligence company helping enterprises, government organizations, and cybersecurity vendors solve the vulnerability prioritization challenge. Trusted by some of the world's largest organizations responsible for protecting hundreds of millions of systems and people, VulnCheck helps organizations outpace adversaries by providing the most comprehensive, real-time vulnerability intelligence that is autonomously correlated with unique, proprietary exploit and threat intelligence. Follow the company on \[LinkedIn\](https://www.linkedin.com/company/vulncheck/) or \[X\](https://x.com/vulncheckai). To learn more about VulnCheck, visit https://vulncheck.com/. \\n\\n## Media Contact\\nJason Vancura\\n  
Marketbridge for VulnCheck\\n  
vulncheck@marketbridge.com\\n

#### [Source](https://vulncheck.com/blog/series-a)

<br/>
---
