---
title: "New Year New UI"
date: 2025-01-30T00:00:00.000Z
draft: false
type: posts
categories: 
- 
---
# New Year New UI

<br/>

<br/>
\\n!\[Customer CVE Page\](/blog/new-year-new-ui/cve-customer.png){width="1200"}\\n\\nEver tried to look up a CVE? Quickly, accurately, without wading through a mess of outdated or incomplete data? If you've been in the trenches of vulnerability management, you know the struggle. When I joined VulnCheck, one of the first things I noticed was how fragmented and inefficient this process can be across the industry.\\n\\nA strong cybersecurity program starts with knowing your vulnerabilities. Getting that information shouldn’t be a hassle, it should be clear, actionable, and fast. That’s why we’ve overhauled the VulnCheck CVE page. This update brings threat intelligence front and center, refines the layout, and makes navigation seamless. The result? A more intuitive, threat centric approach to analyzing vulnerabilities and prioritize what matters.\\n\\nAnd it's not just the CVE, it's having the context around that CVE with visibility into how that specific vulnerability is impacting an organization. Or threat actor linkages. Or MITRE techniques. Or ransomware and botnet attribution. Or botnets. So, depending categorically what you’re monitoring, that might be 100 or 1000 CVEs that you need to analyze. The nice thing about what we’ve built is we’ve customized the experience to make it easy, simple and straight-forward to get to what matters.\\n\\nThis is a big step forward in making vulnerability intelligence more accessible and effective. Because when it comes to securing your environment, speed and accuracy make all the difference.\\n\\n## Enhancements in VulnCheck Community Edition\\nWhen a new CVE drops, is it just another entry in the database, or is it already being exploited in the wild? Our goal is to help the community understand this at a glance, and being the fastest reference to do so. The updated VulnCheck CVE Details page gives you a clear view of a vulnerability’s entire lifecycle, whether it’s newly assigned, actively exploited, or somewhere in between.\\n\\nVulnCheck users with a \[free Community account\](https://vulncheck.com/community) can see the following:\\n\\n!\[Community CVE Page\](/blog/new-year-new-ui/cve-community.png){width="1200"}\\n\\n\* Quickly see if a CVE is known to be exploited or just assigned, with clear indicators on every step in its progression\\n\* See a vulnerabiltiies timeline such as when the CVE was published, when CISA added it to KEV, when NVD published, and if any updates have been made by NVD.\\n\* See what products are impacted using either NVD or VulnCheck CPE.\\n\* Direct access to exploitation reference.\\n\* Access to Exploits currated in VulnCheck's Exploit Database (XDB). This is a curated index of PoC code from Git repositories, compiled with human validation and automated screening.\\nComprehensive references to everything you need in one place, including vendor patches (when available), so you can move from awareness to action fast.\\n\* A quick link to the JSON is available as well as a link to API's that community members have access to.\\n\* CVSS-B scoring.\\n\\n## Benefits to VulnCheck Customers\\nOur customers know, not all vulnerabilities are equal. Some remain dormant, while others quickly become weapons for botnets, ransomware, and targeted attacks. As a security leader, you need to know which CVEs pose a real threat… and how. \\n\\nHere’s a few things that are new in the VulnCheck CVE page for customers:\\n\\n!\[Customer CVE Page\](/blog/new-year-new-ui/cve-threat.png){width="1200"}\\n\\n\* Instantly see where a vulnerability stands with easy to read tiles. Are threat actors exploiting it? Is it linked to botnets, ransomware, weaponized exploits, or just a proof-of-concept?\\nGo beyond basic CVSS Base Score with EPSS, CVSS-BT, and SSVC for a deeper risk assessment.\\n\* Gain a global view of exposure with potentially vulnerable IPs, sorted by country.\\n\* Utilize the MITRE ATT&CK mappings to quickly assess how a vulnerability aligns with adversary tactics and techniques to strengthen your defenses.\\n\* See exactly who is leveraging the vulnerability, whether it’s cybercriminals, state-sponsored groups, or botnets.\\n\* Our enhanced exploitation timeline gives a more detailed breakdown of when exploitation was first observed, giving you the edge in response.\\n\* Prioritization systems including Stakeholder Specific Vulnerability Categorization (SSVC), CVSS-BT Enrichment and EPSS.\\n\* Detections including VulnCheck, Emerging Threats, SigmaHQ, CheckPoint, etc.\\n\* Early Visibility into CVEs not published yet.\\n\\n## Using the New CVE Page\\n1. \*Login to VulnCheck:\* Navigate to https://vulncheck.com/home to create an account or login. \\n2. \*Search for a CVE:\* Use the search bar in the top left hand corner to enter a CVE ID. \\n3. \*Enjoy the Data!\*\\n4. \*Integrate with Your Tools\* Export the data using the JSON tab, the link to the API, or contact sales so we can help figure out the best way to integrate into your toolset.\\n\\n## The Future is Here!\\nThis update is just the beginning. We’re constantly pushing to make vulnerability and exploit intelligence faster, sharper, and more actionable. If you’ve got feedback, we’re listening! And most importantly, stay tuned because there’s more on the way.\\n

#### [Source](https://vulncheck.com/blog/new-year-new-ui)

<br/>
---
